Postgresql hardening (#8)
digital-asset/ex-secure-daml-infra: Documentation/technote-postgresql.md

  - Create a non-superuser user and separate database
- Enable JDBC TLS and client certs
  - Convert keys to DER format:
  - JDBC connection parameters

## Docker startup

The PostgresQL Docker image is started as follows:

```aidl
docker run --name daml-postgres -d -p 5432:5432 \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD="ChangeDefaultPassword!" \
  -e POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD="scram-sha-256" \
  -e POSTGRES_INITDB_ARGS="--auth-host=scram-sha-256 --auth-local=scram-sha-256" \
  -v "$(pwd)/certs/server/certs/db.$DOMAIN.cert.pem:/var/lib/postgresql/db.$DOMAIN.cert.pem:ro" \
  -v "$(pwd)/certs/server/private/db.$DOMAIN.key.pem:/var/lib/postgresql/db.$DOMAIN.key.pem:ro" \
  -v "$(pwd)/certs/intermediate/certs/ca-chain.cert.pem:/var/lib/postgresql/ca-chain.crt:ro" \
  -v "$(pwd)/pg-initdb:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d:ro" \
  postgres:12 \
  -c ssl=on \
  -c ssl_cert_file=/var/lib/postgresql/db.$DOMAIN.cert.pem \
  -c ssl_key_file=/var/lib/postgresql/db.$DOMAIN.key.pem \
  -c ssl_ca_file=/var/lib/postgresql/ca-chain.crt \
  -c ssl_min_protocol_version="TLSv1.2" \
  -c ssl_ciphers="HIGH:!MEDIUM:+3DES:!aNULL"
```

- POSTGRES_PASSWORD # Set the default super-administrative password

> - POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD # The default authentication method. This can be ```trust``` but this bypasses all local authentication checks

Reviewer: Based on the name and the docs, I’m not entirely clear on what this means: Is this only used for connections coming from within the container?

Author: I'll expand the statement. This drives authentication of all connections. Setting to scram-sha-256 requires a password (though some libraries may not support this option). Setting to "trust" allows all connections unconditionally.

- POSTGRES_INITDB_ARGS # To support the changed authentication method we need to change the startup parameters to the DB
- Several -v # mount various files into the Docker file system
- ssl=on # Enable SSL for PostgresQL
- ssl_cert_file # The public certificate for the database TLS connection
- ssl_key_file # private key file
- ssl_ca_file # the CA trust chain (root and intermediate)
- ssl_min_protocol_version="TLSv1.2" # require minimum of TLS 1.2 protocol
- ssl_ciphers="HIGH:!MEDIUM:+3DES:!aNULL" # Refuse certain weak ciphers for TLS

## PostgresQL Initialization Script

> The PostgresQL Docker initialization script does the following:

Reviewer: Maybe describe where you need to save this and how it’s picked up (`-v "$(pwd)/pg-initdb:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d:ro"`).

Author: Added

- Create a separate user (ledger) from the default super administration account (postgres)
- Creates a separate database (ledger)
- Allows all privileges to ledger user to new database (requires for Daml Ledgers to allow automated schema migrations)
- Revokes permissions to default public schema
- Creates a new pg_hba.conf file to restrict access to TLS (and optionally certificate authentication ```clientcert=1```) and reject 
non-TLS based connections.
- This also changes the default password hash method to scram-sha-256. Note that this may break come client libraries that do not support this
password protection method.

> ```aidl

Reviewer: aidl?

Author: Added by IntelliJ. Will remove

#!/bin/bash
set -e

psql -v ON_ERROR_STOP=1 --username "$POSTGRES_USER" --dbname "$POSTGRES_DB" <<-EOSQL
    CREATE USER ledger ENCRYPTED PASSWORD 'LedgerPassword!';
    CREATE DATABASE ledger;
    GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE ledger TO ledger;
    REVOKE ALL ON SCHEMA public FROM public;
EOSQL

echo "hostssl all all all scram-sha-256 clientcert=1\nhostnossl all postgres 0.0.0.0/0 reject" > $PGDATA/pg_hba.conf

```
## Enable TLS for Daml Drivers client

> To enable the Daml Driver-on-postgesql to connect to the database you need to set a JDBC connection URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Daml Driver for PostgreSQL connect to the database you need to set a JDBC connection URL
```

```aidl
# Normally one string but broken out for clarity
 --sql-backend-jdbcurl 
   "jdbc:postgresql://db.$DOMAIN/ledger?    # database hostname and default database
   user=ledger&                             # User login
   password=LedgerPassword!&                # Password
   ssl=true&                                # Enable TLS Connection
   sslmode=verify-full&                     # Require that full certificate chain is validated

>    sslrootcert=$ROOTDIR/certs/intermediate/certs/ca-chain.cert.pem&  # The PKI CA trust chain (root nad intermediate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   sslrootcert=$ROOTDIR/certs/intermediate/certs/ca-chain.cert.pem&  # The PKI CA trust chain (root and intermediate)
```

   sslcert=$ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.cert.der&  # Client Public key in DER format (see below)
   sslkey=$ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.key.der"    # Private key in DER format
```

As noted above the public / private key pair for the JDBC URL has to be provided in DER format. The PKI generates these in PEM format
so we need to convert using the following:

```
openssl x509 -in $ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.cert.pem -inform pem -outform der -out $ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.cert.der
openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -outform DER -in $ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.key.pem -out $ROOTDIR/certs/client/client1.$DOMAIN.key.der -nocrypt
```
This is done in make-certs.sh

# Other comments on CIS Benchmark standard

> The CIS Standards also references many other settings that you should review for your specific deployment / environment. Many of

Reviewer: maybe make this a link?
